How artificial intelligence can boost your productivity level? From the stone age to the modern world, from hunting and gathering to cultivating crops, from living in caves to building communities, we have come a long way to become the most evolved creature on the planet. So, what is that one thing which is a guiding force throughout this process? I believe in simple words we can say: to enhance the experience of life, or in other words, to boost our productivity level. Once the basic need of food, cloth, and shelter is taken care of, we want a comfortable life, good education, proper healthcare, and the list goes on. This urgency and endless need pushed us to make breakthrough inventions that made human life more comfortable and productive. First, humans invented electricity, then the computers came, after that portable computing devices like laptops and mobile phones became operative, and now artificial intelligence or AI is a buzzword. Every creation by human beings transformed human life on the face of this planet. From living in the mud house to building skyscrapers, from riding a bullock cart to flying an aircraft, from posting letters to making video calls, and now from computers to AI or Artificial intelligence is yet another groundbreaking invention of humankind, which can revolutionize our lifestyle forever!#Artificial_Intelligence #productivity #problem_solving #technology #machine #humanSo, what is Artificial Intelligence or AI? We can say in simple words that AI is the ability of a computer program to think and learn rationally. It is about pattern recognition, analyzing images and videos and learning, natural language processing, and understanding. It is more about creating a technology that can, in some cases, replace what humans do. However, to me personally, the most crucial part of the definition of AI is the application to solve problems intelligently and rationally using algorithms that enables us to have computers find deep patterns that we may not have even known exist. AI is like a complex series and layers of algorithms that create a neural network that processes data and information coming into the system and derives knowledge from it. AI is a complicated and broad concept, where Machine Learning is a subset of AI, and Deep Learning, a specialized subset of Machine Learning.According to a study by PWC, $16 trillion of GDP will be added between now and 2030 based on AI. The economic impact of this scale has never been seen before. And it is not just in the IT industry but impacts virtually every industry and aspect of our lives.So, now the question is how people around us are using this enigmatic technology?We use AI all the time. But mostly, we are unaware of it. We use AI whenever we type in a search query on a search engine. Every time we use our GPS or whenever we use any voice recognition system. What we can do with artificial intelligence is unlimited. Whenever we do anything on any technology, we are using some form of machine learning or artificial intelligence. AI means different things to different people. AI facilitating machines and humans to understand and interact with each other creating new opportunities and new ways of doing business. For example:In Medicine, AI is helping doctors arrive at more accurate preliminary diagnoses, reading medical imaging, finding appropriate clinical trials for patients. It is not just influencing patient outcomes but also making operational processes less expensive. It is helping patients with Lou Gehrig’s disease, for example, regain their original voice in place of using a computerized voice.AI is impacting the quality of our lives daily. There’s AI in our Netflix queue, our navigation apps, keeping spam out of our inboxes, and reminding us of important events. AI monitor our investments, detecting fraudulent transactions, identifying credit card fraud, and preventing financial crimes. AI has the potential to access enormous amounts of information, imitate humans, even specific humans, make life-changing recommendations about health and finances, correlate data that may invade privacy, and much more.So, what we have understood is AI has penetrated our day-to-day life. Now the question is how people can use it in the best possible way to extract value from it and boost their productivity even further? Here are some of my suggestions: