How does Big Data Help in Finance and the Growth of Large Firms? Big Data as the word suggests means a large amount of data. Data can be both in structured as well as unstructured format. Data can be collected from various sources such as mobile phones, social media, big transactions, videos, Internet Of Things devices, financial instruments like stocks, bonds, and news. With the increasing use of Internet, the data generated by these devices is also increasing rapidly, and this data is helpful to make projections for what is upcoming. The use of data is largely dependent on the company analyzing it. New technologies such as machine learning, deep learning, artificial intelligence are data-driven technologies. Large companies use this data to enhance the client experience and execute digital transactions with greater efficiency and minimal mistakes. Organizations need to understand the values of this data otherwise they would be left behind.Big Data is completely revolutionizing the way the stock market used to operate. The reaction to any business, political news is seen in microseconds even before the common people are aware of it. Trading Firms used different sets of algorithms to extract data from websites much faster than naked eyes. Investors are relying on quantitative data to make investment decisions. This helps to remove the emotional stress before taking any trade.The exponential growth in technology is changing the way industries and companies operate. The financial sector is usually considered a data-driven sector. Activities such as mergers and acquisitions, financial statements, accounting, and tax statements require a huge amount of data to be cleaned. There are trillions if not billions of dollars moving across different markets and continents. Many firms are responsible for analyzing such data with accuracy and security to create predictions, find patterns, and create different strategies. Because systems cannot store such huge amounts of data due to lack of space and security, analysts are using cloud services. Cloud-based solutions not only reduce the cost but also help in making the data accessible for anyone in need of it. This data can be used to analyze different business models, their profitability and create financial models based on them.These are among the few applications of Big Data in Finance. Big Data is and will be helpful to all aspects of any business. Let it be Marketing, Finance, Operations, or Human Resource as well. Around 1.145 trillion MB of data is generated per day and this data needs to be analyzed to generate more business and acquire new customers